An error occurs when something goes wrong in our code.
For example if I try and divide a number by zero.
When I run this code we get an error message.
Let's look at another example.
Here I am trying to create a new date time object but I'm passing in an invalid date and time string.
When I run this code we get another error message this time an exception.
P P provides both errors and exceptions for handling errors which can be slightly confusing.
Errors are generally used foul language level errors like syntax errors.
Exceptions are the errors you get when using classes and objects.
Earlier on we looked at how we can use exceptions to handle errors by wrapping code that could cause
an error in a try block and dealing with that in a corresponding cat block.
And the MP 8 p 7.
We can now use try.
Catch blocks for error objects too.
Let's wrap this code in a try catch block and print out the details of the exception.
With this we can catch the problem and deal with it if we don't write code to handle errors and exceptions
then our code will stop working.
If we know an error could occur in our code and we have no control over it for example trying to read
a file then we should use the try catch block to handle this possibility.
However as we write more and more code there will undoubtedly be places where errors could occur that
we haven't handled and we don't want to have to put try.
Catch blocks all over the place unnecessarily.
The solution to this is to define custom handlers.
The will catch and deal with any previously on cart errors and exceptions.
We can do this by passing a function to the set error handler function and to these set exception handler
function for exceptions.
First let's create an error handler.
We have to pass in a function with these arguments which are all data regarding the error.
Let's create an error handle of function with those arguments.
And for now just print out the error message.
Will Karl set error handler with this function name.
And will change the code that causes the error.
Back to the first.
Divide by zero error.
Also removing the try catch block.
When we run this code we get the message from the error handler function.
Let's do the same for exceptions.
The parameter to this function is just an exception object.
So let's add an exception handler function.
Print out the message from the Exception object and Karl set exception handler with this function.
Let's also change this code so the line that through an exception.
When we run this code we get the message from the Exception handle a function.
Normally inside the error and Exception handling functions you do more than this for example displaying
detailed error information logging the errors and so on.
So instead of having to deal with this in two places the easiest thing to do is to convert the errors
into exceptions.
Then everything is handled by the exception handler function.
P HP has the error exception class specifically for this purpose.
So in the error handler all we do is throw a new error exception object passing in the details of the
error to the object constructor.
If I change the erroneous code back to the line that previously caused the error.
Now when we run this code the exception handler deals with it instead.